PMM-11192   [DOC] PMM Client upgrade documentation for different distribution methods - Packages (#1109)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/how-to/upgrade.md

## Updating a PMM-Agent

### Package Manager

> The easiest way to manage the agent installation and updates is to rely on the operating system package manager. Use the [percona-release](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/installing.html) package to handle access to Percona repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to manage the agent installation and updates is to rely on the operating system package manager. Use the [percona-release](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/installing.html) package to help you install Percona software in general, and PMM Agent in particular.
```

> The pmm agent is available in the `tools` repository. To deploy a new version of the agent, simply replace the currently installed package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PMM Agent is available from the `tools` repository. To deploy a new version of the agent, you have the following options:
- install the latest version if you are using a package manager
- replace the currently installed package with the latest if you chose to install PMM Agent from the tarball
```

!!! seealso alert alert-info "See also"
    [PMM Server Docker upgrade](../setting-up/server/docker.md#upgrade)

## Updating a PMM-Agent

There are two primary methods to update the PMM Agent:

1. Using your operating system's package manager
2. Updating from a tarball

The package manager method is generally more convenient and efficient.

### 1. Package Manager method

Percona provides the [percona-release](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/installing.html) package, which helps you install Percona software, including the PMM Agent. The PMM Agent is available from the `pmm-client` repository.

To deploy a new version of the Agent via package manager, simply replace the currently installed package with the latest version of the PMM Agent or with a specific version.

#### Install the latest PMM Agent version

Run the commands below to install the latest PMM Agent version via package manager and keep your existing Agent configuration during the update process.

For example, to install the latest version of the PMM Agent on Red Hat or its derivatives:

    ```

>     percona-release enable tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    percona-release enable pmm2-client
```

    yum update pmm2-client
    ```
#### Deploy a specific version

To deploy a specific version of the PMM Agent via package manager, check the available versions and then provide the full name of the package. For example:

    ```

>     yum --showduplicates search pmm2-client
>     pmm2-client-2.36.0-6.el7.x86_64 : PMM-agent
>     pmm2-client-2.37.0-6.el7.x86_64 : PMM-agent
>     pmm2-client-2.37.1-6.el7.x86_64 : PMM-agent
> 
>     yum update pmm2-client-2.37.1-6.el7.x86_64

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    yum --showduplicates search pmm2-client
    pmm2-client-2.39.0-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.40.0-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.40.1-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.41.0-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.41.1-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.41.2-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)
    pmm2-client-2.42.0-6.el9.x86_64 : Percona Monitoring and Management Client (pmm-agent)

    yum update pmm2-client-2.41.2-6.el9.x86_64
```

## Updating a PMM-Agent

### Package Manager

> The easiest way to manage the agent installation and updates is to rely on the operating system package manager. Use the [percona-release](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/installing.html) package to help you install Percona software in general, and PMM Agent in particular.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The most convenient and efficient way to manage the installation and updates of the PMM Agent is by leveraging your operating system's package manager. Percona provides the [percona-release](https://docs.percona.com/percona-software-repositories/installing.html) package, which helps you install Percona software, including the PMM Agent.```

> PMM Agent is available from the `tools` repository. To deploy a new version of the agent, you have the following options:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PMM Agent is available from the `tools` repository. To deploy a new version of the Agent, you have two options:
```

> - install the latest version if you are using a package manager

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If you are using a package manager, you can install the latest version of the PMM Agent directly.
```

> - replace the currently installed package with the latest if you chose to install PMM Agent from the tarball

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If you initially installed the PMM Agent from a tarball, you can replace the currently installed package with the latest version.
```

> For example the following commands install the latest version of the agent on Red Hat or derivatives:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, to install the latest version of the PMM Agent on Red Hat or its derivatives, you can use the following commands:
```

```
percona-release enable tools
yum update pmm2-client
```

> This keeps the existing agent configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By running these commands, your existing agent configuration will be preserved during the update process.
```

> percona-release enable tools

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
percona-release enable pmm2-client
```

@EvgeniyPatlan PTAL, is this the right repo now?
